Question 5.4.8. Question 8. Sketching Graphs.
Find the points of intersection of y equals
-x squared and y equals 2x - 1.
Set the two equations equal to each other.
-x squared equals 2x - 1
x squared plus 2x - 1 equals 0
Using the quadratic formula: x equals negative 2 plus or minus square root
of 4 plus 42 equals negative 2 plus or minus 2square root of
22 equals negative 1 plus or minus square root of 2
x sub 1 equals negative 1 plus square root of 2
approximately 0.41. y sub 1 equals -(0.41)^2 approximately negative 0.17
x sub 2 equals negative 1 - square root of 2
approximately negative 2.41. y sub 2 equals -(-2.41)^2 approximately negative 5.83
(-1 plus square root of 2.\ negative 3 plus 2square root of
2) and (-1-square root of 2.\ negative 3-2square root of 2)
IB exam tip: For intersection problems: set equations
equal. solve. then substitute back to find y-values.